project-ideas/2018.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 2018 Project ideas list
permalink: /project-ideas/2018/
---

Quick links:
 - [InterMine Neo4j database and Bluegenes integration](#intermine-neo4j-database-and-bluegenes-integration)
 - [InterMine ElasticSearch/Solr deep bio data search](#intermine-elasticsearchsolr-deep-bio-data-search)
 - [Buzzbang Google-like bio data search](#buzzbang-google-like-bio-data-search)
 - [Automated test suite for ClojureScript application](#automated-test-suite-for-clojurescript-application)
 - [Query builder structured language to natural language translator](#query-builder-structured-language-to-natural-language-translator)
 - [Cross-InterMine search tool](#cross-intermine-search-tool)
 - [Data browser tool](#data-browser-tool)
 - [Python client expansion](#python-client-expansion)

# Projects

## InterMine Neo4j database and Bluegenes integration
InterMine is an open source integration system that uses PostgreSQL to store complex biological data. The Neo4j project (https://github.com/intermine/neo4j) already replaces the current relational database with Neo4j graph database; it includes the data loaders for InterMine Neo4j database and the RESTful API from which you can query InterMine Neo4j database using PathQuery. This project might be extended by:  

- implementing a full integration with the new user interface Bluegenes
improving the data loaders
- providing some benchmark results

#### Project results:
Fully-functional InterMine Neo4j database running from a bluegenes interface

####  Skills required
- Good understanding of Java
- Good understanding of RESTful API
- Basic understanding of graph databases
- Git or other version control
- No biology skills needed

#### Mentors:
- Sam Hokin  - shokin@ncgr.org
- Daniela Butano - daniela@intermine.org

## InterMine ElasticSearch/Solr deep bio data search
At the moment, we use an older version of Lucene to index the contents of a mine in a primitive way (i.e. we put almost every field into the index and do some simple weighting). This is stuffed into InterMine’s own PostgreSQL database and rehydrated at runtime. We want to use a modern search system so your mission (should you choose to accept it) would be to:

- Assess [ElasticSearch](https://www.elastic.co) (ES) and [Solr](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/) (especially [BioSolr](https://github.com/flaxsearch/BioSolr)) as to which would be better to include with InterMine. We (the mentors) will make a joint assessment with you as to which to use.
- Re-code and re-architect InterMine to use ES/Solr instead of embedded Lucene. This means managing a separate process whilst keeping the system simple for a non-developer to set up and use.

#### Project results:
InterMine uses a modern search system which improved searchability.

#### Skill level:
Hard

#### Skills required
- Java
- Docker or a strong interest to learn
- Solr/Elasticsearch or a strong interest to learn

#### Mentors
- Daniela Butano - daniela@intermine.org
- Justin Clark-Casey - justincc@intermine.org

## Buzzbang Google-like bio data search
Life sciences produce a vast amount of data with a very wide range, encompassing everything from gene and protein sequences to biobank samples and bioinformatics training courses. This data is distributed amongst a multitude of websites, which can make it hard to find. A new initiative called [Bioschemas](http://bioschemas.org) provides a way to embed structured markup in webpages using [JSON-LD](https://json-ld.org), in both InterMine and many other websites, which we can then crawl with Buzzbang to provide a Google-like search over the biological web.  See [this wiki page](https://github.com/justinccdev/bsbang-crawler/wiki) for more information.

### Tasks:
- Help us improve the Buzzbang Bioschemas crawler and indexer.
- Help us improve the Buzzbang search frontend.

#### Project results:
- Bioschemas crawling is much improved, being both more scalable and taking care of a wider range of JSON-LD markup.
- The bioschemas frontend has a better design, returning results in a more human-friendly format.
- (Please note that a proposal does not have to achieve both these results).

#### Skill level:
Hard

#### Skills required
- Python
- Solr
- Flask

#### Repositories
- https://github.com/justinccdev/bsbang-crawler
- https://github.com/justinccdev/bsbang-frontend

#### Mentors
- Justin Clark-Casey - justincc@intermine.org

## Automated test suite for ClojureScript application
BlueGenes ([GitHub](https://github.com/intermine/bluegenes), [Demo](http://bluegenes.apps.intermine.org/)) is a [ClojureScript](https://clojurescript.org/) browser-based UI for [InterMine](http://intermine.org/) that is lacking in good tests. Currently, before merging a pull request, reviewers need to manually validate certain pages work correctly using a [checklist](https://github.com/intermine/bluegenes/blob/dev/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md). Ideally many of these checks could be automated into a test suite to save reviewers time and making it harder to miss errors! See our possible [testcase list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1R6JZcHMoyXCFgP7Qm-UH4Jzr-rNqBPunBHxiTWrfs2I/edit#gid=0) (this list is still growing!). More info on the project available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1x6cFwXHVVKrKblKpmh3PrPobWHJuD1qsPvEPhgg4si4/edit#)

#### Project results:
A headless (e.g. phantomjs or similar) UI test suite using a mock server for http requests. Stretch goal: hooked up to [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/) or similar CI.

#### Skills required:
- Clojurescript / Clojure
- Advantageous: ability to examine software and identify+implement useful test cases.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Yo Yehudi yo@intermine.org
- Josh Heimbach josh@intermine.org

## Query builder structured language to natural language translator
InterMine uses a structured GUI-based query builder ([demo](http://www.flymine.org/flymine/customQuery.do)) to allow users to construct queries into complex biological data. Whilst InterMine experts are comfortable building queries with this interface, it's not entirely intuitive and can seem intimidating to newer users, despite [extensive help  documentation](http://flymine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/query-builder/Documentationquerybuilder.html). Given that all queries _can_ be expressed in natural language, we would like to build a library that can translate a natural language statement to an InterMine query. Please read [the full spec doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YkUpDxFpd1sBCR5zM_5NBNdT7DsjgeksD-TofAt2S8g/edit?usp=sharing) before applying.

#### Project results:
Turn a natural language sentence into a InterMine [PathQuery](http://intermine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/pathquery/).

#### Skills required:
- ClojureScript / Clojure OR JavaScript

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Aaron Golden aaron.golden@nuigalway.ie 
- Yo Yehudi yo@intermine.org

## Cross-InterMine search tool
There are lots of InterMines based in different locations around the world. It would be nice to use [InterMine WebServices](http://iodocs.apps.intermine.org/) to type a search term once, and search many (or all) InterMines at the same time, then display all results sets on the same page. Would use the InterMine registry ([ui](http://registry.intermine.org/), [api docs](http://registry.intermine.org/api-docs/), [api](http://registry.intermine.org/service/instances)) to pull an up-to-date list of InterMines.  

#### Project results:
A client-driven cross-InterMine search page.

#### Skills required:
HTML, CSS, JavaScript, (or some language that compiles to JavaScript). No biological knowledge required.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Yo Yehudi - yo@intermine.org
- Nadia Yudina - joystate@me.com

## Data browser tool
InterMine needs a faceted search tool to display data. E.g something like https://dcc.icgc.org/search. A possible (but non-binding) mockup of how this might look for InterMine is available here: [https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/3cd706c4-2c71-49fa-b8e7-c724432c26e4/0](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/3cd706c4-2c71-49fa-b8e7-c724432c26e4/0). Further info is available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E8bJy8w4bQ16W7rokiMDj4Jpds2Zz1dhcDRYCiUZ_lA/edit?usp=sharing).

#### Project results:
A tool to browse InterMine data
Skills required: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, (or some language that compiles to JavaScript). No biological knowledge required.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Yo Yehudi - yo@intermine.org
- Nadia Yudina - joystate@me.com

## Python client expansion
InterMine has a client in Python with enables the querying of InterMine databases via Python scripts. However this client does not include all functionality available in InterMine so we’d like to extend the library to include features such as the region search and enrichment. [See here for project details](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KI3f2ArHAbssVV1g6L7-Oxk7CatK2r7iH0inoUrbgfQ/edit?usp=sharing)

#### Project results:
Improved InterMine Python client

#### Skills required:
Python, No biological knowledge required.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Julie Sullivan - julie@intermine.org
- Rachel Lyne - rachel@intermine.org

Commit message:

update es/solr in project list to point to a wiki page giving some clue as to what this is about

project-ideas/2018.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 2018 Project ideas list
permalink: /project-ideas/2018/
---

Quick links:
 - [InterMine Neo4j database and Bluegenes integration](#intermine-neo4j-database-and-bluegenes-integration)
 - [InterMine ElasticSearch/Solr deep bio data search](#intermine-elasticsearchsolr-deep-bio-data-search)
 - [Buzzbang Google-like bio data search](#buzzbang-google-like-bio-data-search)
 - [Automated test suite for ClojureScript application](#automated-test-suite-for-clojurescript-application)
 - [Query builder structured language to natural language translator](#query-builder-structured-language-to-natural-language-translator)
 - [Cross-InterMine search tool](#cross-intermine-search-tool)
 - [Data browser tool](#data-browser-tool)
 - [Python client expansion](#python-client-expansion)

# Projects

## InterMine Neo4j database and Bluegenes integration
InterMine is an open source integration system that uses PostgreSQL to store complex biological data. The Neo4j project (https://github.com/intermine/neo4j) already replaces the current relational database with Neo4j graph database; it includes the data loaders for InterMine Neo4j database and the RESTful API from which you can query InterMine Neo4j database using PathQuery. This project might be extended by:  

- implementing a full integration with the new user interface Bluegenes
improving the data loaders
- providing some benchmark results

#### Project results:
Fully-functional InterMine Neo4j database running from a bluegenes interface

####  Skills required
- Good understanding of Java
- Good understanding of RESTful API
- Basic understanding of graph databases
- Git or other version control
- No biology skills needed

#### Mentors:
- Sam Hokin  - shokin@ncgr.org
- Daniela Butano - daniela@intermine.org

## InterMine ElasticSearch/Solr deep bio data search
At the moment, we use an older version of Lucene to index the contents of a mine in a primitive way (i.e. we put almost every field into the index and do some simple weighting). This is stuffed into InterMine’s own PostgreSQL database and rehydrated at runtime. We want to use a modern search system so your mission (should you choose to accept it) would be to:

For more information see [this wiki page](https://github.com/intermine/intermine/wiki/search).

- Assess [ElasticSearch](https://www.elastic.co) (ES) and [Solr](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/). We (the mentors) will make a joint assessment with you as to which to use.
- Re-code and re-architect InterMine to use ES/Solr instead of embedded Lucene. This means managing a separate process whilst keeping the system simple for a non-developer to set up and use.

#### Project results:
InterMine uses a modern search system which improved searchability.

#### Skill level:
Hard

#### Skills required
- Java
- Docker or a strong interest to learn
- Solr/Elasticsearch or a strong interest to learn

#### Mentors
- Daniela Butano - daniela@intermine.org
- Justin Clark-Casey - justincc@intermine.org

## Buzzbang Google-like bio data search
Life sciences produce a vast amount of data with a very wide range, encompassing everything from gene and protein sequences to biobank samples and bioinformatics training courses. This data is distributed amongst a multitude of websites, which can make it hard to find. A new initiative called [Bioschemas](http://bioschemas.org) provides a way to embed structured markup in webpages using [JSON-LD](https://json-ld.org), in both InterMine and many other websites, which we can then crawl with Buzzbang to provide a Google-like search over the biological web.  See [this wiki page](https://github.com/justinccdev/bsbang-crawler/wiki) for more information.

### Tasks:
- Help us improve the Buzzbang Bioschemas crawler and indexer.
- Help us improve the Buzzbang search frontend.

#### Project results:
- Bioschemas crawling is much improved, being both more scalable and taking care of a wider range of JSON-LD markup.
- The bioschemas frontend has a better design, returning results in a more human-friendly format.
- (Please note that a proposal does not have to achieve both these results).

#### Skill level:
Hard

#### Skills required
- Python
- Solr
- Flask

#### Repositories
- https://github.com/justinccdev/bsbang-crawler
- https://github.com/justinccdev/bsbang-frontend

#### Mentors
- Justin Clark-Casey - justincc@intermine.org

## Automated test suite for ClojureScript application
BlueGenes ([GitHub](https://github.com/intermine/bluegenes), [Demo](http://bluegenes.apps.intermine.org/)) is a [ClojureScript](https://clojurescript.org/) browser-based UI for [InterMine](http://intermine.org/) that is lacking in good tests. Currently, before merging a pull request, reviewers need to manually validate certain pages work correctly using a [checklist](https://github.com/intermine/bluegenes/blob/dev/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md). Ideally many of these checks could be automated into a test suite to save reviewers time and making it harder to miss errors! See our possible [testcase list](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1R6JZcHMoyXCFgP7Qm-UH4Jzr-rNqBPunBHxiTWrfs2I/edit#gid=0) (this list is still growing!). More info on the project available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1x6cFwXHVVKrKblKpmh3PrPobWHJuD1qsPvEPhgg4si4/edit#)

#### Project results:
A headless (e.g. phantomjs or similar) UI test suite using a mock server for http requests. Stretch goal: hooked up to [Travis](https://travis-ci.org/) or similar CI.

#### Skills required:
- Clojurescript / Clojure
- Advantageous: ability to examine software and identify+implement useful test cases.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Yo Yehudi yo@intermine.org
- Josh Heimbach josh@intermine.org

## Query builder structured language to natural language translator
InterMine uses a structured GUI-based query builder ([demo](http://www.flymine.org/flymine/customQuery.do)) to allow users to construct queries into complex biological data. Whilst InterMine experts are comfortable building queries with this interface, it's not entirely intuitive and can seem intimidating to newer users, despite [extensive help  documentation](http://flymine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/query-builder/Documentationquerybuilder.html). Given that all queries _can_ be expressed in natural language, we would like to build a library that can translate a natural language statement to an InterMine query. Please read [the full spec doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YkUpDxFpd1sBCR5zM_5NBNdT7DsjgeksD-TofAt2S8g/edit?usp=sharing) before applying.

#### Project results:
Turn a natural language sentence into a InterMine [PathQuery](http://intermine.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/pathquery/).

#### Skills required:
- ClojureScript / Clojure OR JavaScript

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Aaron Golden aaron.golden@nuigalway.ie 
- Yo Yehudi yo@intermine.org

## Cross-InterMine search tool
There are lots of InterMines based in different locations around the world. It would be nice to use [InterMine WebServices](http://iodocs.apps.intermine.org/) to type a search term once, and search many (or all) InterMines at the same time, then display all results sets on the same page. Would use the InterMine registry ([ui](http://registry.intermine.org/), [api docs](http://registry.intermine.org/api-docs/), [api](http://registry.intermine.org/service/instances)) to pull an up-to-date list of InterMines.  

#### Project results:
A client-driven cross-InterMine search page.

#### Skills required:
HTML, CSS, JavaScript, (or some language that compiles to JavaScript). No biological knowledge required.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Yo Yehudi - yo@intermine.org
- Nadia Yudina - joystate@me.com

## Data browser tool
InterMine needs a faceted search tool to display data. E.g something like https://dcc.icgc.org/search. A possible (but non-binding) mockup of how this might look for InterMine is available here: [https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/3cd706c4-2c71-49fa-b8e7-c724432c26e4/0](https://www.lucidchart.com/documents/view/3cd706c4-2c71-49fa-b8e7-c724432c26e4/0). Further info is available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E8bJy8w4bQ16W7rokiMDj4Jpds2Zz1dhcDRYCiUZ_lA/edit?usp=sharing).

#### Project results:
A tool to browse InterMine data
Skills required: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, (or some language that compiles to JavaScript). No biological knowledge required.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Yo Yehudi - yo@intermine.org
- Nadia Yudina - joystate@me.com

## Python client expansion
InterMine has a client in Python with enables the querying of InterMine databases via Python scripts. However this client does not include all functionality available in InterMine so we’d like to extend the library to include features such as the region search and enrichment. [See here for project details](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KI3f2ArHAbssVV1g6L7-Oxk7CatK2r7iH0inoUrbgfQ/edit?usp=sharing)

#### Project results:
Improved InterMine Python client

#### Skills required:
Python, No biological knowledge required.

#### Skill level:
Medium.

#### Mentors:
- Julie Sullivan - julie@intermine.org
- Rachel Lyne - rachel@intermine.org
