guidance/students-accepted.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /guidance/students-accepted/
---

We'll try to generally adhere to the [Google Manuals](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/resources/guide) to avoid repetition, but here are a few InterMine-specific guidelines for Google Summer of Code.

## Communication

You'll establish a personal rhythm with your mentor, but please bear the following points in mind:

## Email

All students and mentors should subscribe to our [InterMine GSoC public mailing list](https://lists.cam.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/gen-intermine-gsoc-public). This is to ensure that we can effectively share announcements.

## Chat

You can come hang at [chat.intermine.org](http://chat.intermine.org) in the #general channel, and feel free to ask for help in #support - but remember to make tickets or send emails for any big bugs or design decisions, as chat logs are transient.

## Writing code

### Source Control

We use GitHub for our source control, with a [Git Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)-like branching model. New work is done in personal forked repo branches,  periodically merged into the upstream dev branch when it appears stable.  master contains only stable releases merged from dev.

You should follow a similar model - treat `github.com/intermine/yourproject` as upstream and work on a branch your own fork, i.e. `github.com/yourusername/yourproject`, merging (or PRing for existing projects) periodically. Remember, pushed commits (to your own repo or InterMine's) prove you're alive and working on the project! ;)

We'll fork your repo so there will always be an InterMine upstream.

### Licence

If you're starting a brand new project, think about what **licence** you'd like.  It needs to be open source, obviously, but so long as it's a permissive open source licence like Apache, MIT, BSD, or LGPL, we'll probably be happy. Discuss it with your mentor before committing to a licence.

## Project Management

1. It's okay not to use the workplan from your proposal, but you and your mentor will need to agree to any changes.
2. You do need a workplan! Make sure you and your mentor have a good idea of what the deliverables are.
3. You'll want to schedule regular meetings with your mentor.

## Outreach

We'd love to host blog posts about yourself, the work you're planning to do, or work you have done. Equally, if you're tweeting or blogging on a personal blog and would like us to link to it / mention you / etc., poke your mentor and we'll give you a shout-out.

Commit message:

hide rss feed since we're not using jekyll as a blog

guidance/students-accepted.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /guidance/students-accepted/
---

# Advice for accepted students

First of all, welcome to InterMine! We're excited to have you working with us this year.

We'll try to generally adhere to the [Google Manuals](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/resources/guide) to avoid repetition, but here are a few InterMine-specific guidelines for Google Summer of Code.

## Communication

You'll establish a personal rhythm with your mentor, but please bear the following points in mind:

## Email

All students and mentors should subscribe to our [InterMine GSoC public mailing list](https://lists.cam.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/gen-intermine-gsoc-public). This is to ensure that we can effectively share announcements.

## Chat

You can come hang at [chat.intermine.org](http://chat.intermine.org) in the #general channel, and feel free to ask for help in #support - but remember to make tickets or send emails for any big bugs or design decisions, as chat logs are transient.

## Writing code

### Source Control

We use GitHub for our source control, with a [Git Flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)-like branching model. New work is done in personal forked repo branches,  periodically merged into the upstream dev branch when it appears stable.  master contains only stable releases merged from dev.

You should follow a similar model - treat `github.com/intermine/yourproject` as upstream and work on a branch your own fork, i.e. `github.com/yourusername/yourproject`, merging (or PRing for existing projects) periodically. Remember, pushed commits (to your own repo or InterMine's) prove you're alive and working on the project! ;)

We'll fork your repo so there will always be an InterMine upstream.

### Licence

If you're starting a brand new project, think about what **licence** you'd like.  It needs to be open source, obviously, but so long as it's a permissive open source licence like Apache, MIT, BSD, or LGPL, we'll probably be happy. Discuss it with your mentor before committing to a licence.

## Project Management

1. It's okay not to use the workplan from your proposal, but you and your mentor will need to agree to any changes.
2. You do need a workplan! Make sure you and your mentor have a good idea of what the deliverables are.
3. You'll want to schedule regular meetings with your mentor.

## Outreach

We'd love to host blog posts about yourself, the work you're planning to do, or work you have done. Equally, if you're tweeting or blogging on a personal blog and would like us to link to it / mention you / etc., poke your mentor and we'll give you a shout-out.
